DOCS-765 a doc describing the differences b/t dev + prod (#575)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/deployments/environments.mdx

---

> title: Environments / Instances

Reviewer: if we are favouring using "instances" over "environments" in this guide, then let's lead with that for the titles

```suggestion
title: Instances / Environments
```

> description: An overview of the differences between Development and Production instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: An overview of the differences between development and production instances.
```

---

> # Environments / Instances

Reviewer: if we are favouring using "instances" over "environments" in this guide, then let's lead with that for the titles

```suggestion
# Instances / Environments
```

> When creating a new application within Clerk, you are provided with two instances: `Development` and `Production`.  These instances vary slightly and should only be used appropriately.

Reviewer: we are labeling them as "environments" OR "instances" so can we include something like,

also, did we want to capitalize "development" and "production"?

```suggestion
When creating a new application within Clerk, you are provided with two **instances** (also known as **environments**): `development` and `production`.  These instances vary slightly and should only be used appropriately.
```

Author: I'd prefer we keep them capitalized because thats how we display them in the Dashboard

> When creating a new application within Clerk, you are typically provided with two instances: `Development` and `Production`.  These instances vary slightly and should be used appropriately.

Reviewer 2: > you are typically provided with two instances

Can we say "you are provided with two instances" instead? In what scenario would someone be provided with a different set of instances?

Reviewer 2: Let's keep the language unambiguous and update if/when more instances types are supported independent of that integration 👍

## Development Instance

> A `Development` instance is our default instance type and has characteristics that allow it to be more useful for local development, and therefore has a more relaxed overall security posture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `Development` instance is Clerk's default instance type and has characteristics that allow it to be more useful for local development. To facilitate development and local authentication, `Development` instances have a more relaxed security posture and are not suitable for production workloads.
```

> Some notable examples of `Development`-only characteristics are: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some notable examples of `Development`-only characteristics in a Clerk application are: 
```

Some notable examples of `Development`-only characteristics are: 
- A "Development" banner is shown prominently to make clear you're managing or configuring non-production data

> - Email and SMS templates are prepended with the environment type to prevent against using Development instances for production purposes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Email and SMS templates are prefixed with the environment type to prevent against using `Development` instances for production purposes
```

- Some social connections use shared credentials by default 

> - Certain functionality like Bot Protection is only available in Production mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Certain functionality, like Bot Protection, is only available in Production mode
```

> - Certain functionality like Bot Protection is only available in Production mode

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Certain functionality like Bot Protection is only available in Production mode
- The Account Portal will use a Clerk development domain that ends with `accounts.dev` instead of your production domain
- OAuth consent screens will show the development domain that ends with `accounts.dev` instead of your production domain
- Search engines will not be able to crawl and index your application
```

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: I don't think the double newline does anything w.r.t. spacing
```suggestion

```

> > **Note:** All paid functionality is available in a `Development` instance. It's only when you deploy your application to `Production` that you will be asked to upgrade to a `Pro` account. See [our pricing page](/pricing) for full details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** All paid functionality is available in a `Development` instance. However, when you deploy your application to `Production` you will be asked to upgrade to a `Pro` account. See [our pricing page](/pricing) for full details.
```

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

## Production Instance

> A `Production` instance is the more robust of our instance types. It is meant to support high-volumes of production traffic and by default has a more strict security posture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `Production` instance is the more robust Clerk's instance types. `Production` instances are meant to support high volumes of traffic and by default have a more strict security posture.
```

> Some notable differences with a `Development` instance are: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some notable differences between `Production` and `Development` instances are: 
```

- You must associate a production domain within the Dashboard
- You are required to provision your own SSO credentials 

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> To take advantage, you must activate your `Production` environment. We've created a guide for [Deploying to Production](/docs/deployments/overview#deploying-to-production) to help you avoid any common pitfalls.

Reviewer 2: To take advantage of what?
